{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf330
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red68\green17\blue122;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9620\viewh8440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 Gutenprint Utility for  EPSON Inkjet Printers\

\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
June 14, 2008
\b0 \

\b \

\b0 The Gutenprint Utility for EPSON Inkjet Printers is a shell script that provides a user interface to the 
\b escputil
\b0  command line utility.  The interface is text based only.  To use this script, just double click on it.  A Terminal window will open and guide you through the various functions.  You can drag and drop this script onto your hard drive for easy access.  You may want to put it on your Desktop or in the Applications or Utilities folder.\
\
The functions that are available are nozzle check, head cleaning, and head alignment.  Reading of the ink levels is not supported.  To get a reporting of the ink levels for EPSON inkjet printers, you may want to try the alternative backend (communications software) called 
\b usbtb
\b0 .  The last version known to work with both PowerPC and Intel Macs and report the ink levels during printing is 
\b usbtb version 1.0.5
\b0 .  This version is 
\b not
\b0  a Universal Binary but should run fine on both PowerPC and Intel Macs.  \
\
You may obtain the 
\b usbtb 
\b0 software from the 
\f1 Gutenprint download page for usbtb \
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=1537&package_id=120183}